## 1.1 Synopsis

Protocol Title:
A Study to Compare the Efficacy and Safety of Apixaban to the Standard of Care (SOC) Dalte
‐
parin for the Treatment of Venous Thromboembolism in Patients with Cancer.
Brief Title:
CARAVAGGIO study
Regulatory Agency Identifier Number(s):
Registry
ID
[Pediatric Investigational Plan Number]:
Objectives, Endpoints, and Estimands:
The trial will be designed to compare the efficacy and safety of apixaban with the standard of
care (SOC), dalteparin (a low-molecular-weight heparin, LMWH), for the treatment of acute
venous thromboembolism (VTE) in patients with cancer. The study will evaluate apixaban for
non-inferiority to dalteparin for the primary outcome of recurrent VTE. Patients with active cancer
can be at high risk of both venous thromboembolism and bleeding events, and those who devel
‐
op VTE are at greater risk for recurrent VTE and early death. When apixaban is considered for
DVT or PE treatment in cancer patients, a careful assessment of the benefits against the risks
should be made, based on the patient’s individual risk for thrombosis and major bleeding after
full discussion of the potential benefits and harms. The rationale for this study is based on the
hypothesis that apixaban may be an effective and safe option for the treatment of VTE in this
population.
Objectives
Endpoints
Primary
- To assess the non-inferiority of oral apixaban compared to subcutaneous low
molecular weight heparin (LMWH) dalteparin for the treatment of newly
diagnosed proximal deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and/or pulmonary embolism
(PE) in patients with cancer.
-
Secondary
- To compare the rates of the composite of major and clinically relevant non-
major (CRNM) bleeding, and all bleeding events between the apixaban and
dalteparin groups.
- To assess the incidence of major bleeding (MB) and clinically relevant non-
major bleeding (CRNMB).
- To evaluate rates of major bleeding in patient subgroups.
- To compare the incidence of the Major Venous Thromboembolism (VTE)
endpoint, a composite of proximal deep vein thrombosis (DVT), non-fatal
pulmonary embolism (PE), and VTE-related death, between apixaban and
dalteparin.
- To evaluate the efficacy of apixaban versus dalteparin in patient subgroups
defined by cancer type and whether the VTE was incidental versus
symptomatic.
- To evaluate the individual components of the primary efficacy outcome.
- To evaluate symptomatic recurrence of VTE.
- To evaluate all-cause death.
- To evaluate the composite of the primary efficacy outcome plus major
bleeding.
- To evaluate the composite of the primary efficacy outcome plus all-cause
death.
- To evaluate the composite of the primary efficacy outcome plus major bleeding
plus all-cause death.
- To evaluate any major cardiovascular event, fatal or non-fatal, including acute
myocardial infarction or ischemic stroke.
- To evaluate all venous thromboembolic events, including splanchnic vein
thrombosis and cerebral vein thrombosis.
- To evaluate permanent early discontinuation of the study drug due to safety
reasons.
- To assess Quality of Life (QoL) according to the Anti-Clot Treatment Scale
(ACTS).
-
Objectives
Endpoints
- To conduct analyses and report on patient subgroups defined by cancer type,
cancer treatment, and incidental versus symptomatic VTE.
Overall Design Synopsis:
This will be an international, multicenter, Phase IIIB/Phase 3, pivotal, interventional clinical study.
The design will incorporate a Prospective Randomized Open Blinded End-point (PROBE) ap
‐
proach, where patients and investigators will be aware of treatment assignments, but outcome
adjudication will be blinded. The study will also be a pragmatic, open-label, non-inferiority,
active-controlled,  event-driven,  randomized  controlled  trial.  Masking  will  be  applied  to  the
assessor for outcome adjudication, but not to the participant or investigator.
Brief Summary:
The purpose of this study is to compare the efficacy and safety of apixaban with the standard of
care (SOC), dalteparin, for the treatment of acute venous thromboembolism (VTE) in patients
with cancer.
Study details will include:
- The study duration for each participant will be up to 7 months.
- The treatment duration will be 6 months.
- The visit frequency will include a follow-up visit scheduled at 7 months from randomization.
- Health measurements will include efficacy (recurrent VTE), safety (major bleeding, clinically
relevant non-major bleeding, all bleeding), and Quality of Life (QoL).
- The participant population will include patients with cancer-associated VTE, including sympto
‐
matic or incidentally diagnosed acute proximal deep vein thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embol
‐
ism (PE). Patients with basal cell or squamous cell skin cancers, primary or metastatic cerebral
cancers, known brain metastases, and acute leukaemia will be excluded. Caution with direct
factor Xa inhibitors will be warranted in GI and genitourinary malignancies and other settings
with high risk for mucosal bleeding.
Number of Participants:
A total of 1,170 patients with cancer and symptomatic or incidental acute proximal deep vein
thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) will be enrolled in the study.
Study Arms and Duration:
-
Arm 1 (Apixaban):
Patients will receive oral apixaban 10 mg twice daily (bid) for the first 7
days, followed by a maintenance dose of 5 mg bid for six months.
-
Arm 2 (Dalteparin):
Patients will receive subcutaneous (SC) dalteparin 200 IU/kg once daily
for the first month, followed by a maintenance dose of 150 IU/kg o.i.d. for the subsequent five
months.
The total treatment duration for each participant will be 6 months.
Data Monitoring/Other Committee: [Yes/No]