## 2.2 Background

The study will enroll patients with cancer-associated venous thromboembolism (VTE). Approxim
‐
ately 5% to 20% of patients with cancer develop a VTE, and approximately 20% of all VTE
cases occur in patients with cancer. Patients with active cancer can be at high risk of both
venous thromboembolism and bleeding events. Sites of cancer with the highest rates of VTE
include the pancreas, kidney, ovary, lung, and stomach. When apixaban is considered for DVT
or PE treatment in cancer patients, a careful assessment of the benefits against the risks should
be made. It should be noted that patients with basal cell or squamous cell skin cancers, primary
or metastatic cerebral cancers, known brain metastases, and acute leukaemia will be excluded
from this study.
Apixaban is a potent, oral, reversible, direct, and highly selective active site inhibitor of factor Xa.
Its antithrombotic activity does not require antithrombin III. Apixaban functions by inhibiting both
free and clot-bound factor Xa, as well as prothrombinase activity. Through the inhibition of factor
Xa, apixaban prevents thrombin generation and subsequent thrombus development.
Previous clinical trials have evaluated apixaban against dalteparin for the treatment of VTE in
patients with cancer. The direct factor Xa inhibitors apixaban, edoxaban, and rivaroxaban are
the only DOACs that were evaluated for the short-term treatment of VTE for patients with
cancer, and different DOACs have different drug-drug interactions.