## 1.3 Schedule of Activities (SoA)

Procedure
Screening
(up to
specified
days before
Day 1)
Intervention Period (6 Months)
E/
D
Follow-up (Month
7 from
randomization)
Notes
–
1
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
E/D = Early Discontinuation
Informed consent
X
Inclusion and
exclusion criteria
X
Recheck clinical status
before randomization and/or
first dose of investigational
intervention.
Demography
X
Full physical
examination
including height and
weight
X
X
X
Medical history
(includes substance
use and family
history of premature
CV disease)
X
Procedure
Screening
(up to
specified
days before
Day 1)
Intervention Period (6 Months)
E/
D
Follow-up (Month
7 from
randomization)
Notes
–
1
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
E/D = Early Discontinuation
Current medical
conditions
X
Pregnancy test (CBP
participants only)
X
Refer to Section 8.3.5
Pregnancy Testing for
instruction on timepoints.
HIV, Hepatitis B and C
screening
Laboratory tests
(include liver
chemistries)
X
Includes Hemoglobin,
platelet count, creatinine
clearance, liver function
tests. Repeat testing for
clinically significant
abnormal values until
normalization.
12-lead ECG
X
Procedure
Screening
(up to
specified
days before
Day 1)
Intervention Period (6 Months)
E/
D
Follow-up (Month
7 from
randomization)
Notes
–
1
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
E/D = Early Discontinuation
Vital signs
X
X
X
X
Performed at each
visit.
Randomization (if
applicable)
X
Genetic sample
X
Optional participation with
separate consent.
Study intervention
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
Administered for 6 months.
Apixaban: 10 mg BID for first
7 days, then 5 mg BID.
Dalteparin: 200 IU/kg daily
for first month, then 150 IU/
kg daily.
AE review
X
X
X
X
X
Monitored continuously from
intervention start until the
follow-up visit.
Procedure
Screening
(up to
specified
days before
Day 1)
Intervention Period (6 Months)
E/
D
Follow-up (Month
7 from
randomization)
Notes
–
1
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
E/D = Early Discontinuation
Solicited
administration-site
events (if applicable)
Unsolicited AEs (if
applicable)
X
X
X
X
X
Monitored continuously from
intervention start until the
follow-up visit.
SAE review
X
X
X
X
X
Monitored continuously from
intervention start until the
follow-up visit.
Device deficiencies (if
applicable)
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
Monitored throughout the 6-
month intervention period for
dalteparin pre-filled syringes.
Concomitant
medication review
X
X
X
X
X
X
Reviewed at screening and
all subsequent visits.
Procedure
Screening
(up to
specified
days before
Day 1)
Intervention Period (6 Months)
E/
D
Follow-up (Month
7 from
randomization)
Notes
–
1
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
E/D = Early Discontinuation
Study-specific
assessments (e.g.,
PK, efficacy)
X
X
X
X
Efficacy events (VTE, death)
monitored throughout the 6-
month intervention period.
Final efficacy assessment at
Month 6.
PRO assessments
X
X
X
X
Quality of Life (ACTS)
assessed. Schedule not
specified.