# 3. Objectives, Endpoints, and Estimands

Objectives
Endpoints
Primary
- To assess the non-inferiority of oral apixaban
compared to subcutaneous low molecular
weight heparin (LMWH) dalteparin for the
treatment of newly diagnosed proximal deep
vein thrombosis (DVT) and/or pulmonary
embolism (PE) in patients with cancer.
-
Efficacy:
Incidence of objectively
confirmed recurrent Venous
Thromboembolism (VTE) at 6 months, a
composite of: Proximal Deep Vein
Thrombosis (DVT) of the lower limbs,
Symptomatic DVT of the upper limb,
Pulmonary Embolism (PE).
-
Safety:
Incidence of major bleeding at 6
months, as defined by the International
Society on Thrombosis and Haemostasis
(ISTH) guidelines.
Secondary
- To compare the rates of the composite of
major and clinically relevant non-major
(CRNM) bleeding, and all bleeding events
between the apixaban and dalteparin groups.
- To assess the incidence of major bleeding
(MB) and clinically relevant non-major
bleeding (CRNMB).
- To evaluate rates of major bleeding in patient
subgroups.
- To compare the incidence of the Major
Venous Thromboembolism (VTE) endpoint.
- To evaluate the individual components of the
primary efficacy outcome.
- To evaluate symptomatic recurrence of VTE.
- To evaluate all-cause death.
- To evaluate the composite of the primary
efficacy outcome plus major bleeding.
- To evaluate any major cardiovascular event.
- To assess Quality of Life (QoL).
- Composite of major bleeding and clinically
relevant non-major bleeding (CRNMB).
- All bleeding events.
- Incidence of major bleeding (MB).
- Incidence of CRNMB.
- Major Venous Thromboembolism (VTE)
endpoint, a composite of proximal DVT, non-
fatal PE, and VTE-related death.
- Individual components of the primary
efficacy outcome.
- Symptomatic recurrence of VTE.
- All-cause death.
- Composite of primary efficacy outcome
plus major bleeding.
- Any major cardiovascular event, fatal or
non-fatal.
- Quality of Life (QoL) assessed according to
the Anti-Clot Treatment Scale (ACTS).
[Tertiary/Exploratory/Other]
Objectives
Endpoints
- To conduct a sub-analysis to assess the
incidence of bleeding events according to
cancer site.
- Incidence of bleeding events (Major
Bleeding and CRNMB) according to the
primary cancer site (Gastrointestinal,
Genitourinary, Lung, Breast, Gynecological,
Hematological).
# 3.1 Estimand(s) for Primary Objective(s)
Population:
Patients with cancer and symptomatic or incidentally diagnosed acute proximal
deep vein thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE). Patients with basal cell or
squamous cell skin cancers, primary or metastatic cerebral cancers, known brain
metastases, and acute leukaemia will be excluded. Careful consideration will be required for
patients with GI malignancies due to a higher risk of bleeding and for patients with severe
renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 mL/min) for whom DOACs are generally not
recommended [1, 2].
Variable (or Endpoint):
The primary efficacy endpoint will be the time to first event of the
composite of recurrent VTE over 6 months. The primary safety endpoint will be the
incidence of major bleeding over 6 months.
Treatment Condition:
Apixaban versus dalteparin over a 6-month treatment period.
Intercurrent Events:
Not specified.
Population-Level Summary:
The primary outcome analysis will be based on time-to-event
data, for which a 95% Confidence Interval (CI) for the hazard ratio will be calculated.
Rationale:
The trial will be designed to test for non-inferiority. The non-inferiority design is
based on the hypothesis that apixaban will provide a favorable balance between benefits
and harms.
Supplementary Estimand(s)
# 3.2 Estimands for Secondary Objective(s)
Secondary estimand(s) for Secondary Objective
-
Secondary Safety Outcomes:
Clinically Relevant Non-Major Bleeding (CRNMB); Composite
of major bleeding and CRNMB; Permanent early discontinuation of the study drug due to safety
reasons.
-
Secondary Efficacy Outcomes:
The individual components of the primary efficacy outcome;
Symptomatic recurrence of VTE; All-cause death; The composite of the primary efficacy out
‐
come plus major bleeding; Any major cardiovascular event; All venous thromboembolic events.
•
•
•
•
•
•
-
Time-to-Event Measurements:
The primary outcome of recurrent VTE will be assessed over
the 6-month trial period.
-
Quality of Life (QoL):
QoL will be assessed according to the Anti-Clot Treatment Scale
(ACTS).
-
Subgroup Analyses:
Analyses will be conducted on patient subgroups defined by cancer
type, cancer treatment, and whether the initial VTE was incidental versus symptomatic. These
analyses will explore if patients with incidental VTE have a different risk profile for recurrence
and major bleeding compared to patients with symptomatic VTE.
Supplementary Estimand(s)
# 3.3 Estimands for [Tertiary/Exploratory/Other] Objectives
[Tertiary/Exploratory/Other] Estimand(s)
-
Correlation Analyses:
A sub-analysis will be performed to assess the incidence of bleeding
events (Major Bleeding and CRNMB) according to the primary cancer site. This analysis will
include patients with the following cancer types: Gastrointestinal, Genitourinary, Lung, Breast,
Gynecological, and Hematological cancer. This analysis will assess whether the incidence of
bleeding is higher in certain cancer types, such as gastrointestinal (GI) and genitourinary (GU)
cancer. A further sub-analysis will assess if rates of recurrent VTE vary by cancer type.
Supplementary Estimand(s)

=== TABLE 1 ===
| Objectives <br> Endpoints |  |
| --- | --- |
| Primary |  |
| - To assess the non-inferiority of oral apixaban <br> compared to subcutaneous low molecular <br> weight heparin (LMWH) dalteparin for the <br> treatment of newly diagnosed proximal deep <br> vein thrombosis (DVT) and/or pulmonary <br> embolism (PE) in patients with cancer. <br> - Efficacy: Incidence of objectively <br> confirmed recurrent Venous <br> Thromboembolism (VTE) at 6 months, a <br> composite of: Proximal Deep Vein <br> Thrombosis (DVT) of the lower limbs, <br> Symptomatic DVT of the upper limb, <br> Pulmonary Embolism (PE). <br> - Safety: Incidence of major bleeding at 6 <br> months, as defined by the International <br> Society on Thrombosis and Haemostasis <br> (ISTH) guidelines. |  |
| Secondary |  |
| - To compare the rates of the composite of <br> major and clinically relevant non-major <br> (CRNM) bleeding, and all bleeding events <br> between the apixaban and dalteparin groups. <br> - To assess the incidence of major bleeding <br> (MB) and clinically relevant non-major <br> bleeding (CRNMB). <br> - To evaluate rates of major bleeding in patient <br> subgroups. <br> - To compare the incidence of the Major <br> Venous Thromboembolism (VTE) endpoint. <br> - To evaluate the individual components of the <br> primary efficacy outcome. <br> - To evaluate symptomatic recurrence of VTE. <br> - To evaluate all-cause death. <br> - To evaluate the composite of the primary <br> efficacy outcome plus major bleeding. <br> - To evaluate any major cardiovascular event. <br> - To assess Quality of Life (QoL). <br> - Composite of major bleeding and clinically <br> relevant non-major bleeding (CRNMB). <br> - All bleeding events. <br> - Incidence of major bleeding (MB). <br> - Incidence of CRNMB. <br> - Major Venous Thromboembolism (VTE) <br> endpoint, a composite of proximal DVT, non- <br> fatal PE, and VTE-related death. <br> - Individual components of the primary <br> efficacy outcome. <br> - Symptomatic recurrence of VTE. <br> - All-cause death. <br> - Composite of primary efficacy outcome <br> plus major bleeding. <br> - Any major cardiovascular event, fatal or <br> non-fatal. <br> - Quality of Life (QoL) assessed according to <br> the Anti-Clot Treatment Scale (ACTS). |  |
| [Tertiary/Exploratory/Other] |  |

=== TABLE 2 ===
| Objectives <br> Endpoints |
| --- |
| - To conduct a sub-analysis to assess the <br> incidence of bleeding events according to <br> cancer site. <br> - Incidence of bleeding events (Major <br> Bleeding and CRNMB) according to the <br> primary cancer site (Gastrointestinal, <br> Genitourinary, Lung, Breast, Gynecological, <br> Hematological). |