## 2.3 Benefit/Risk Assessment

## 2.3.1 Risk Assessment
The main safety endpoint for this trial will be major bleeding. Common adverse reactions
expected with these agents include haemorrhage, contusion, epistaxis, and haematoma. Safety
endpoints will include major bleeding, a composite of major and clinically relevant non-major
(CRNM)  bleeding,  and  all  bleeding  events.  As  with  other  anticoagulants,  patients  taking
apixaban will be carefully observed for signs of bleeding. Caution with direct factor Xa inhibitors
will be warranted in GI and genitourinary malignancies and other settings with high risk for
mucosal bleeding, as a threefold to fourfold higher risk of bleeding is reported for patients with
GI cancers. This study will assess the incidence of bleeding in both treatment groups, including
analyses  by  cancer  localization,  with  a  focus  on  patients  with  gastrointestinal  (GI)  and
genitourinary (GU) cancer.
## 2.3.2 Benefit Assessment
This study will assess whether apixaban is non-inferior to dalteparin for the treatment of cancer-
associated VTE. The primary efficacy outcome will be the incidence of recurrent VTE at 6
months. The study will also evaluate rates of recurrent VTE in subgroups of patients based on
cancer type, such as gynecological cancer, GI cancer, genitourinary cancer, and lung cancer.
## 2.3.3 Overall Benefit Risk Conclusion
This study is designed to test the hypothesis that apixaban has a favorable benefit-risk profile,
demonstrating non-inferiority for VTE recurrence with a similar risk of major bleeding compared
to LMWH (dalteparin). The study aims to provide high-quality evidence to support apixaban as a
treatment option for VTE in patients with cancer. The choice of treatment must be based on the
specific  clinical  setting  to  minimize  risk,  after  careful  consideration  of  potential  drug-drug
interactions, bleeding risk, patient preference, and the availability of treatment options, including
cost considerations.