## 4.3 Justification for Dose

Administration  of  the  investigational  product  will  be  discontinued  if  a  severe  haemorrhage
occurs, or prior to elective surgery or invasive procedures that carry a risk of bleeding.
- Apixaban should be discontinued at least 48 hours prior to elective surgery or invasive
procedures with a moderate or high risk of bleeding, or where the risk of bleeding would be un
‐
acceptable.
- Apixaban should be discontinued at least 24 hours prior to elective surgery or invasive
procedures with a low risk of bleeding, where any bleeding is expected to be minimal, non-
critical, or easily controlled.
- If surgery or invasive procedures cannot be delayed, appropriate caution should be exercised,
taking into consideration an increased risk of bleeding. This risk should be weighed against the
urgency of the intervention. Apixaban should be restarted after the procedure as soon as the
clinical situation allows and adequate haemostasis has been established.
The main safety endpoint and a potential dose-limiting toxicity for this trial will be major bleeding.
The study will assess and compare the rates of major bleeding and clinically relevant non-major
bleeding between the apixaban and dalteparin arms. A sub-analysis will evaluate if rates of
major bleeding are higher in patients with certain cancer types, such as genitourinary and
gastrointestinal (GI) cancers. DOACs should be used carefully for patients with GI cancers
because of the higher risk of GI bleeding.