## 4.2 Scientific Rationale for Study Design

The trial will be designed to compare the efficacy and safety of apixaban with the standard of
care (SOC), dalteparin (a low-molecular-weight heparin, LMWH), for the treatment of acute
venous thromboembolism (VTE) in patients with cancer. The primary objective will be to assess
the non-inferiority of oral apixaban compared to subcutaneous dalteparin for treating newly
diagnosed proximal deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and/or pulmonary embolism (PE) in this patient
population. The study is designed to test if apixaban meets pre-specified non-inferiority criteria.
Apixaban is a potent, oral, reversible, direct, and highly selective active site inhibitor of factor Xa,
which does not require antithrombin III for its antithrombotic activity. It inhibits both free and clot-
bound factor Xa, as well as prothrombinase activity. While apixaban has no direct effects on
platelet aggregation, it indirectly inhibits thrombin-induced platelet aggregation. By inhibiting
factor Xa, apixaban is hypothesized to prevent thrombin generation and subsequent thrombus
development.
The ASH guideline panel suggests a DOAC (apixaban, edoxaban, or rivaroxaban) over LMWH
for the short-term treatment (3-6 months) of VTE for patients with active cancer (conditional
recommendation, low certainty in the evidence of effects). The choice of treatment must be
based on the specific clinical setting to minimize risk, after careful consideration of potential
drug-drug interactions, bleeding risk, patient preference, and the availability of treatment options,
including cost.
## 4.2.1 Patient Input into Design
This trial will include an option for patients to complete a voluntary ‘Study Participant Feedback
Questionnaire’.  The  purpose  will  be  to  collect  feedback  on  their  clinical  trial  experience.
Individual participant responses will be anonymous to the investigator and site staff. Coded,
aggregated responses will be used by the sponsor to understand where improvements can be
made in the clinical trial process. This questionnaire will not collect data about the participant’s
disease, symptoms, treatment effect, or adverse events and will be analyzed and reported
separately from the clinical study data.