# 4. Study Design

# 4.1 Overall Design
This will be an international, multicenter, Phase IIIB/Phase 3, pivotal, interventional clinical study
involving approximately 1,170 patients. The study will employ a Prospective Randomized Open
Blinded End-point (PROBE) design, where patients and investigators will be aware of treatment
assignments, but outcome adjudication will be performed in a blinded manner. It will be charac
‐
terized as a pragmatic, open-label, non-inferiority, active-controlled, event-driven, randomized
controlled trial.
The study will consist of a 6-month treatment period and will include both randomised and
preference cohorts. Patients will be randomly assigned to receive either apixaban or a low-
molecular-weight heparin (LMWH), dalteparin. The LMWH arm will include the potential for a
transition to warfarin. The treatment duration for both arms will be 6 months.
# 4.2 Scientific Rationale for Study Design
The trial will be designed to compare the efficacy and safety of apixaban with the standard of
care (SOC), dalteparin (a low-molecular-weight heparin, LMWH), for the treatment of acute
venous thromboembolism (VTE) in patients with cancer. The primary objective will be to assess
the non-inferiority of oral apixaban compared to subcutaneous dalteparin for treating newly
diagnosed proximal deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and/or pulmonary embolism (PE) in this patient
population. The study is designed to test if apixaban meets pre-specified non-inferiority criteria.
Apixaban is a potent, oral, reversible, direct, and highly selective active site inhibitor of factor Xa,
which does not require antithrombin III for its antithrombotic activity. It inhibits both free and clot-
bound factor Xa, as well as prothrombinase activity. While apixaban has no direct effects on
platelet aggregation, it indirectly inhibits thrombin-induced platelet aggregation. By inhibiting
factor Xa, apixaban is hypothesized to prevent thrombin generation and subsequent thrombus
development.
The ASH guideline panel suggests a DOAC (apixaban, edoxaban, or rivaroxaban) over LMWH
for the short-term treatment (3-6 months) of VTE for patients with active cancer (conditional
recommendation, low certainty in the evidence of effects). The choice of treatment must be
based on the specific clinical setting to minimize risk, after careful consideration of potential
drug-drug interactions, bleeding risk, patient preference, and the availability of treatment options,
including cost.
## 4.2.1 Patient Input into Design
This trial will include an option for patients to complete a voluntary ‘Study Participant Feedback
Questionnaire’.  The  purpose  will  be  to  collect  feedback  on  their  clinical  trial  experience.
Individual participant responses will be anonymous to the investigator and site staff. Coded,
aggregated responses will be used by the sponsor to understand where improvements can be
made in the clinical trial process. This questionnaire will not collect data about the participant’s
disease, symptoms, treatment effect, or adverse events and will be analyzed and reported
separately from the clinical study data.
# 4.3 Justification for Dose
Administration  of  the  investigational  product  will  be  discontinued  if  a  severe  haemorrhage
occurs, or prior to elective surgery or invasive procedures that carry a risk of bleeding.
- Apixaban should be discontinued at least 48 hours prior to elective surgery or invasive
procedures with a moderate or high risk of bleeding, or where the risk of bleeding would be un
‐
acceptable.
- Apixaban should be discontinued at least 24 hours prior to elective surgery or invasive
procedures with a low risk of bleeding, where any bleeding is expected to be minimal, non-
critical, or easily controlled.
- If surgery or invasive procedures cannot be delayed, appropriate caution should be exercised,
taking into consideration an increased risk of bleeding. This risk should be weighed against the
urgency of the intervention. Apixaban should be restarted after the procedure as soon as the
clinical situation allows and adequate haemostasis has been established.
The main safety endpoint and a potential dose-limiting toxicity for this trial will be major bleeding.
The study will assess and compare the rates of major bleeding and clinically relevant non-major
bleeding between the apixaban and dalteparin arms. A sub-analysis will evaluate if rates of
major bleeding are higher in patients with certain cancer types, such as genitourinary and
gastrointestinal (GI) cancers. DOACs should be used carefully for patients with GI cancers
because of the higher risk of GI bleeding.
# 4.4 End-of-Study Definition
The end of the study will be defined as the date of the last visit of the last participant in the study.
A participant will be considered to have completed the study if they have completed the 6-month
treatment period and the follow-up visit scheduled at 7 months from randomization. The primary
endpoint will be assessed at the conclusion of the 6-month treatment period.
Long-term anticoagulation for secondary VTE prophylaxis should be considered for patients with
active cancer. In the absence of contraindications, the benefits of long-term anticoagulation are
considered to outweigh the harms. This can be discontinued when patients are no longer at high
risk for recurrent VTEs or are entering the last weeks of life. The decision will depend on cancer
type and stage, prognosis, risk of VTE and bleeding, comorbidities, costs, and patient prefer
‐
ences.