## 5.2 Exclusion Criteria

Participants will be excluded from the study if any of the following criteria apply:
1.
2.
◦
◦
◦
3.
◦
◦
4.
5.
## Medical Conditions
ECOG Performance Status of III or IV.
Life expectancy of less than 6 months.
Active bleeding or a high risk of bleeding that contraindicates anticoagulant treatment,
including active clinically significant bleeding.
Lesion or condition if considered a significant risk factor for major bleeding. This may
include current or recent gastrointestinal ulceration, presence of malignant neoplasms at
high risk of bleeding, recent intracranial haemorrhage, known or suspected oesophageal
varices, arteriovenous malformations, vascular aneurysms or major intraspinal or
intracerebral vascular abnormalities.
Recent (within the last month) brain, spinal, or ophthalmic surgery.
Bacterial endocarditis.
Uncontrolled hypertension (systolic BP > 180 mm Hg or diastolic BP > 100 mm Hg despite
treatment).
Hypersensitivity to the study drugs or their excipients.
Any condition that, in the investigator’s judgment, would place the subject at increased risk
of harm.
Women of childbearing potential (WOCBP) not practicing a medically accepted, highly
effective method of contraception during the trial and for one month beyond. Highly effective
methods will include: combined hormonal contraception, progestogen-only hormonal
contraception, intrauterine device (IUD), intrauterine hormone-releasing system (IUS),
bilateral tubal occlusion, vasectomized partner, or sexual abstinence.
Pregnancy or breastfeeding.
Patients with a history of thrombosis who are diagnosed with antiphospholipid syndrome.
Patients with prosthetic heart valves.
## Liver Safety
Acute hepatitis, chronic active hepatitis, liver cirrhosis, or an alanine aminotransferase level
≥3 times the upper limit of normal and/or a bilirubin level ≥2 times the upper limit of normal.
Hepatic disease associated with coagulopathy and clinically relevant bleeding risk.
## Prior/Concomitant Therapy
Administration of therapeutic doses of LMWH, fondaparinux, or unfractionated heparin
(UFH) for more than 72 hours before randomization.
Receipt of 3 or more doses of a vitamin K antagonist before randomization.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
8.
9.
9.
10.
Use of thrombectomy, vena cava filter insertion, or thrombolysis to manage the index VTE
episode.
An indication for anticoagulant treatment for a condition other than the index VTE.
Concomitant treatment with any other anticoagulant agent (e.g., UFH, LMWHs,
fondaparinux, oral anticoagulants) except under specific circumstances of switching
anticoagulant therapy.
Concomitant use of strong inhibitors or inducers of both cytochrome P-450 3A4 and P-
Glycoprotein.
Concomitant thienopyridine therapy (clopidogrel, prasugrel, or ticagrelor), aspirin over 165
mg daily, or dual antiplatelet therapy.
## Prior/Concurrent Clinical Study Experience
Participation in another pharmacotherapeutic program with an experimental therapy known
to affect the coagulation system.
## Diagnostic Assessments
Creatinine clearance < 30 ml/min based on the Cockcroft-Gault equation. Apixaban is not
recommended in patients with creatinine clearance < 15 mL/min, or in patients undergoing
dialysis.
Hemoglobin level lower than 8 g/dL (5.0 mmol/L) or a platelet count <75x10⁹/L.
History of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia.
## Other Exclusion Criteria
Age less than 18 years.