# 7. Discontinuation of Study Intervention and

# Participant Discontinuation/Withdrawal
Discontinuation of specific sites or of the study as a whole will be detailed in Appendix 1.
# 7.1 Discontinuation of Study Intervention
In rare instances, it may be necessary for a participant to permanently discontinue study inter
‐
vention.  If  study  intervention  is  permanently  discontinued,  the  participant  should,  if  at  all
possible, remain in the study to be evaluated for study outcomes. See the SoA for data to be
collected at the time of discontinuation of study intervention and follow-up and for any further
evaluations that need to be completed.
Administration  of  the  investigational  product  will  be  discontinued  if  a  severe  haemorrhage
occurs, or prior to elective surgery or invasive procedures that carry a risk of bleeding. Apixaban
should be discontinued at least 48 hours prior to elective surgery or invasive procedures with a
moderate or high risk of bleeding, and at least 24 hours prior for those with a low risk of
bleeding. Apixaban should be restarted after the invasive procedure or surgical intervention as
soon as possible provided the clinical situation allows and adequate haemostasis has been es
‐
tablished. Permanent early discontinuation of the study drug due to safety reasons will be a
secondary safety outcome.
## 7.1.1 Liver Event Stopping Criteria
Discontinuation of study intervention for abnormal liver tests will be required by the investigator
when a participant meets one of the conditions outlined in the protocol-specified algorithm or in
the presence of abnormal liver chemistries not meeting protocol-specified stopping rules if the
investigator believes that it is in best interest of the participant.
## 7.1.2 QTc Stopping Criteria
If a clinically significant finding is identified (including, but not limited to, changes from baseline
in QT interval corrected using Bazett’s formula [QTcB] or Fridericia’s formula [QTcF]) after
enrollment, the investigator or qualified designee will determine if the participant can continue on
the study intervention and if any change in participant management is needed. This review of
the ECG printed at the time of collection must be documented. Any new clinically relevant finding
should be reported as an AE.
## 7.1.3 Temporary Discontinuation
Temporary cessation of the study drug may be required for certain bleeding events considered
to have clinical consequences. Lapses in therapy should be avoided as discontinuing anticoagu
‐
lants places patients at an increased risk of thrombosis. If anticoagulation with apixaban must be
temporarily discontinued for any reason, therapy should be restarted as soon as possible.
## 7.1.4 Rechallenge
This section will describe the procedures for restarting the intervention after stopping criteria
have been met.
7.1.4.1 Study Intervention Restart or Rechallenge After Liver Stopping Criteria Are
Met
Study intervention restart or rechallenge after liver chemistry stopping criteria are met will be
allowed in this study. If the participant meets liver chemistry stopping criteria, do not restart or
rechallenge the participant with study intervention unless:
Sponsor board approval
is granted
Ethics and/or IRB approval is obtained, if required, and
Separate consent for intervention restart or rechallenge is signed by the participant
NOTE: If study intervention was interrupted for suspected intervention-induced liver
injury, the participant should be informed of the risk of death, liver transplantation,
hospitalization, and jaundice and reconsented before resumption of dosing.
Refer to Appendix 6 Liver Safety: Suggestions and Guidelines for Liver Events for details on the
restart or rechallenge process.
If sponsor board approval to restart or rechallenge the participant with study intervention is
not
granted
, then the participant must permanently discontinue study intervention and may continue
in the study for protocol-specified follow-up assessments.
# 7.2 Participant Discontinuation/Withdrawal from the Study
A participant may withdraw from the study at any time at the participant’s own request for
any reason (or without providing any reason) without any negative consequences.
•
•
•
•
A participant may be withdrawn at any time at the discretion of the investigator for safety,
behavioral, or compliance reasons.
At the time of discontinuing from the study, if possible, an early discontinuation visit should
be conducted, as shown in the SoA. See SoA for data to be collected at the time of study
discontinuation and follow-up and for any further evaluations that need to be completed.
The participant will be permanently discontinued from the study intervention and the study
at that time.
If the participant withdraws consent for disclosure of future information, the sponsor may
retain and continue to use any data collected before such a withdrawal of consent.
If a participant withdraws from the study, the participant may request destruction of any
samples taken and not tested, and the investigator must document this in the site study
records.
# 7.3 Lost to Follow up
A participant will be considered lost to follow-up if the participant repeatedly fails to return for
scheduled visits and is unable to be contacted by the study site.
The following actions must be taken if a participant fails to return to the clinic for a required study
visit:
The site must attempt to contact the participant and reschedule the missed visit as soon as
possible, counsel the participant on the importance of maintaining the assigned visit
schedule, and ascertain whether the participant wishes to and/or should continue in the
study.
Before a participant is deemed lost to follow-up, the investigator or designee must make
every effort to regain contact with the participant (where possible, 3 telephone calls, and if
necessary, a certified letter to the participant’s last known mailing address or local
equivalent methods). These contact attempts should be documented in the participant’s
medical record.
Should the participant continue to be unreachable, the participant will be considered to have
withdrawn from the study.
Site personnel, or an independent third party, will attempt to collect the vital status of the
participant within legal and ethical boundaries for all participants randomized, including
those who did not get study intervention. Public sources may be searched for vital status
information. If vital status is determined as deceased, this will be documented and the
participant will not be considered lost to follow-up. Sponsor personnel will not be involved in
any attempts to collect vital status information.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•