## 7.3 Lost to Follow up

A participant will be considered lost to follow-up if the participant repeatedly fails to return for
scheduled visits and is unable to be contacted by the study site.
The following actions must be taken if a participant fails to return to the clinic for a required study
visit:
The site must attempt to contact the participant and reschedule the missed visit as soon as
possible, counsel the participant on the importance of maintaining the assigned visit
schedule, and ascertain whether the participant wishes to and/or should continue in the
study.
Before a participant is deemed lost to follow-up, the investigator or designee must make
every effort to regain contact with the participant (where possible, 3 telephone calls, and if
necessary, a certified letter to the participant’s last known mailing address or local
equivalent methods). These contact attempts should be documented in the participant’s
medical record.
Should the participant continue to be unreachable, the participant will be considered to have
withdrawn from the study.
Site personnel, or an independent third party, will attempt to collect the vital status of the
participant within legal and ethical boundaries for all participants randomized, including
those who did not get study intervention. Public sources may be searched for vital status
information. If vital status is determined as deceased, this will be documented and the
participant will not be considered lost to follow-up. Sponsor personnel will not be involved in
any attempts to collect vital status information.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•