# 8. Study Assessments and Procedures

Study procedures and their timing will be summarized in the SoA. Protocol waivers or
exemptions will not be allowed.
Adherence to the study design requirements, including those specified in the SoA, will be
essential and required for study conduct.
All screening evaluations must be completed and reviewed to confirm that potential
participants meet all eligibility criteria. The investigator will maintain a screening log to
record details of all participants screened and to confirm eligibility or record reasons for
screening failure, as applicable.
Procedures conducted as part of the participant’s routine clinical management and obtained
before signing of the ICF may be utilized for screening or baseline purposes provided the
procedures met the protocol-specified criteria and were performed within the timeframe
defined in the SoA.
In the event of a significant study-continuity issue (eg, caused by a pandemic), alternate
strategies for participant visits, assessments, medication distribution and monitoring may be
implemented by the sponsor or the investigator, as per local health authority/ethics
requirements.
Safety, laboratory, or analyte results that could unblind the study will not be reported to
investigative sites or other blinded personnel until the study has been unblinded.
Planned timepoints for all assessments will be provided in the SoA.
# 8.1 Administrative [and General/Baseline] Procedures
At screening, baseline characteristics will be recorded, including hypertension, hyperlipidemia,
diabetes,  and  coronary  artery  disease.  Based  on  historical  data  from  similar  trials  (e.g.,
ADVANCE-3), the expected prevalence of these comorbidities is approximately 46% for hyper
‐
tension, 10% for hyperlipidemia, 9% for diabetes, and 8% for coronary artery disease.
For context, this trial will exclude patients with basal cell or squamous cell skin cancers, primary
brain tumors, known brain metastases, or acute leukemia.
# 8.2 [Efficacy and/or Immunogenicity] Assessments
Efficacy will be assessed over the 6-month treatment period. Assessments will specifically
monitor for recurrent VTE, major bleeding, clinically relevant non-major bleeding, and all-cause
deaths.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
The primary efficacy endpoint will be the incidence of objectively confirmed recurrent Venous
Thromboembolism (VTE), which will be a composite endpoint comprising:
- Proximal Deep Vein Thrombosis (DVT) of the lower limbs (symptomatic or unsuspected).
- Symptomatic DVT of the upper limb.
- Pulmonary Embolism (PE) (symptomatic or unsuspected).
Secondary efficacy outcomes will include the individual components of the primary efficacy
outcome, symptomatic recurrence of VTE, all-cause death, major cardiovascular events, and all
venous thromboembolic events.
# 8.3 Safety Assessments
Safety endpoints will be monitored throughout the 6-month treatment period. The main safety
endpoint and potential dose-limiting toxicity will be major bleeding. All bleeding criteria will
include surgical site bleeding.
## 8.3.1 Physical Examinations
A complete physical examination will include, at a minimum, assessments of the
cardiovascular, respiratory, gastrointestinal, and neurological systems. Height and weight
will also be measured and recorded.
A brief physical examination will include, at a minimum, assessments of the skin, lungs,
cardiovascular system, and abdomen (liver and spleen).
Investigators should pay special attention to clinical signs related to previous serious
illnesses.
## 8.3.2 Vital Signs
Oral, tympanic, rectal, axillary, skin, or temporal artery temperature, pulse rate, respiratory
rate, and blood pressure will be recorded (before blood collection for laboratory tests).
Blood pressure and pulse measurements will be assessed with a completely automated
device. Manual techniques will be used only if an automated device is not available.
Blood pressure and pulse measurements should be preceded by at least 5 minutes of rest
for the participant in a quiet setting without distractions.
For blood pressure measurements, 3 consecutive blood pressure readings will be recorded
at intervals of at least 1 minute. The average of the 3 blood pressure readings will be
recorded.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
## 8.3.3 Electrocardiograms
Triplicate or single 12-lead ECG(s) will be obtained as outlined in the SoA using an ECG
machine that automatically calculates the heart rate and measures PR, QRS, QT, and QTc
intervals. Refer to Section 7.1.2 for QTc withdrawal criteria and any additional QTc readings
that may be necessary.
At each timepoint at which triplicate ECGs are required, 3 individual ECG tracings should be
obtained as closely as possible in succession, but no more than 2 minutes apart.
## 8.3.4 Clinical Safety Laboratory Tests
See Appendix 2 for the list of clinical laboratory tests to be performed and the SoA (Section
1.3) for the timing and frequency.
The investigator must review the laboratory results, document this review, and record any
clinically significant changes occurring during the study as an AE. The laboratory results
must be retained with source documents.
Liver function testing will be performed prior to initiating apixaban.
Treatment with apixaban will not require routine monitoring of drug exposure. However, a
calibrated quantitative anti-Factor Xa assay may be useful in exceptional situations where
knowledge of apixaban exposure may help to inform clinical decisions, e.g., overdose and
emergency surgery [5, 6].
All protocol-required laboratory tests, as defined in Appendix 2, must be conducted in
accordance with the laboratory manual and the SoA.
If laboratory values from non-protocol-specified laboratory tests performed at the
institution’s local laboratory require a change in participant management or are considered
clinically significant by the investigator, then the results must be recorded.
## 8.3.5 Pregnancy Testing
Pregnancy will be an exclusion criterion. Women of childbearing potential (WOCBP) must prac
‐
tice a medically accepted, highly effective method of contraception during the trial and for one
month beyond. Highly effective methods will include: combined hormonal contraception, proges
‐
togen-only hormonal contraception, intrauterine device (IUD), intrauterine hormone-releasing
system (IUS), bilateral tubal occlusion, vasectomized partner, or sexual abstinence.
It is unknown whether apixaban or its metabolites are excreted in human milk. A decision must
be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue/abstain from apixaban therapy,
taking into account the benefit of breast-feeding for the child and the benefit of therapy for the
woman.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
## 8.3.6 Suicidal Ideation and Behavior Risk Monitoring
As apixaban is not considered a CNS-active intervention, specific monitoring for suicidal ideation
and behavior (SIB) will not be mandated unless a participant’s underlying condition presents an
elevated risk. Should a participant experience signs of SIB, a risk assessment will be conducted.
All factors contributing to SIB will be evaluated, and consideration will be given to discontinu
‐
ation of the study intervention. Families and caregivers should be alerted to monitor participants
for unusual changes in behavior and report such symptoms immediately to the study investigat
‐
or.
# 8.4 Adverse Events (AEs) Serious Adverse Events (SAEs),
# and Other Safety Reporting
The definitions of adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs) can be found in
Appendix 3. Adverse events will be monitored with a particular focus on bleeding and clotting
events. Common adverse reactions expected will include haemorrhage, contusion, epistaxis,
and haematoma. The use of apixaban may be associated with an increased risk of occult or
overt bleeding from any tissue or organ, which may result in posthaemorrhagic anaemia. The
investigator and any qualified designees will be responsible for detecting, documenting, and
recording events that meet the definition of an AE or SAE.
## 8.4.1 Time Period and Frequency for Collecting AE and SAE
## Information
All SAEs and AEs will be collected from the signing of the informed consent form (ICF) until the
final follow-up visit at 7 months. The primary monitoring period will cover the 6-month treatment
period. Medical occurrences that begin before the start of study intervention but after obtaining
informed consent will be recorded as medical history, not as AEs. All SAEs will be recorded and
reported to the sponsor or designee immediately and under no circumstance should this exceed
24 hours.
## 8.4.2 Method of Detecting AEs and SAEs
Care will be taken not to introduce bias when detecting AEs and/or SAEs. Open-ended and non
‐
leading verbal questioning of the participant will be the preferred method to inquire about AE
occurrences. Patients receiving apixaban will be carefully observed for any signs of bleeding.
Specific signs and symptoms of bleeding to monitor for will include bruising or bleeding under
the skin, tar-coloured stools, blood in urine, epistaxis, dizziness, tiredness, paleness, weakness,
sudden severe headache, and coughing up or vomiting blood.
## 8.4.3 Follow-up of AEs and SAEs
After  the  initial  AE/SAE  report,  the  investigator  will  be  required  to  proactively  follow  each
participant at subsequent visits/contacts. All SAEs and AEs of special interest (as defined in
Section 8.4.8) will be followed until resolution, stabilization, the event is otherwise explained, or
the participant is lost to follow-up (as defined in Section 7.3).
## 8.4.4 Regulatory Reporting Requirements for SAEs
Prompt notification by the investigator to the sponsor of an SAE will be essential so that
legal obligations and ethical responsibilities towards the safety of participants are met.
The sponsor will have a legal responsibility to notify both the local regulatory authority and
other regulatory agencies about the safety of a study intervention under clinical
investigation.
An investigator who receives an investigator safety report describing an SAE will review and
then file it and will notify the IRB/IEC, if appropriate according to local requirements.
Investigator safety reports must be prepared for suspected unexpected serious adverse
reactions (SUSARs) according to local regulatory requirements and sponsor policy and
forwarded to investigators within 15 days.
## 8.4.5 Pregnancy
Details of all pregnancies in participants able to give birth will be collected after the start of
study intervention and until the time period for post-intervention contraception has passed.
If a pregnancy is reported, the investigator will record pregnancy information on the
appropriate form and submit it to the sponsor within 24 hours of learning of the pregnancy.
While pregnancy itself will not be considered to be an AE or SAE, any pregnancy
complication or elective termination of a pregnancy will be reported as an AE or SAE.
Abnormal pregnancy outcomes (eg, spontaneous abortion, fetal death, stillbirth, congenital
anomalies, ectopic pregnancy) will be considered SAEs and will be reported as such.
The investigator will collect follow-up information on the participant, the pregnancy outcome,
and the neonate.
## 8.4.6 Cardiovascular and Death Events
Assessment of any major cardiovascular event (fatal or non-fatal, including acute myocardial
infarction or ischemic stroke) and all-cause death will be secondary objectives of this study.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
## 8.4.7 Disease-related Events and/or Disease-related Outcomes Not
## Qualifying as AEs or SAEs
Certain disease-related events (DREs) that are common in participants with the disease under
study may not be reported according to the standard process for expedited reporting of SAEs,
even if they meet the SAE definition. However, if the event is of greater intensity, frequency, or
duration than expected for the individual, or if the investigator considers there is a reasonable
possibility that the event was related to the study intervention, it must be reported as an AE/SAE.
## 8.4.8 Adverse Events of Special Interest
The primary safety outcome will be the incidence of major bleeding, as defined by the Interna
‐
tional  Society  on  Thrombosis  and  Haemostasis  (ISTH)  guidelines.  All  bleeding  criteria  will
include surgical site bleeding.
Major Bleeding:
An event will be characterized as acute, clinically overt bleeding
associated with one or more of the following criteria:
A decrease in hemoglobin of 2 g/dL (1.2 mmol/L) or more.
The transfusion of two or more units of packed red blood cells.
Bleeding that occurs in at least one critical site (intracranial, intraspinal, intraocular,
pericardial, intra-articular, intramuscular with compartment syndrome, or
retroperitoneal).
Bleeding that is fatal.
Bleeding that necessitates acute surgical intervention.
Clinically Relevant Non-Major Bleeding (CRNMB):
An acute, clinically overt bleeding
event that does not meet the criteria for major bleeding and consists of one of the following:
Any bleeding that compromises hemodynamics.
Spontaneous hematoma larger than 25 cm², or 100 cm² if traumatic.
Intramuscular hematoma documented by ultrasonography.
Epistaxis or gingival bleeding requiring intervention, or venipuncture bleeding lasting >5
minutes.
Macroscopic hematuria that is spontaneous or lasts >24 hours post-procedure.
Hemoptysis, hematemesis, or spontaneous rectal bleeding requiring intervention.
Any other bleeding event considered to have clinical consequences (requiring medical
intervention, unscheduled contact, temporary drug cessation, or associated with pain/
impairment).
•
◦
◦
◦
◦
◦
•
◦
◦
◦
◦
◦
◦
◦
This study will assess the incidence of major bleeding and CRNMB in both treatment arms, with
a particular focus on whether the incidence is higher in patients with gastrointestinal (GI) and
genitourinary (GU) cancer.
## 8.4.9 Medical Device Deficiencies
Medical devices will not be provided for use in this study. This section is not applicable.
8.4.9.1 Time Period for Detecting Medical Device Deficiencies
Not applicable.
8.4.9.2 Follow-up of Medical Device Deficiencies
Not applicable.
8.4.9.3 Prompt Reporting of Device Deficiencies to the Sponsor
Not applicable.
8.4.9.4 Regulatory Reporting Requirements for Device Deficiencies
Not applicable.
# 8.5 Pharmacokinetics
In patients with chronic renal insufficiency, the mean terminal half-life of anti-Factor Xa activity
following a single intravenous dose of 5,000 IU dalteparin was 5.7 ± 2.0 hours, which is consid
‐
erably longer than in healthy volunteers, suggesting greater accumulation can be expected.
# 8.6 Pharmacodynamics
While standard clotting tests will be affected as expected by the drug’s mechanism of action,
these changes will not be recommended for assessing its pharmacodynamic effects. Apixaban
prolongs clotting tests such as prothrombin time (PT), INR, and activated partial thromboplastin
time (aPTT), but these are subject to a high degree of variability and will not be recommended
for routine assessment of the pharmacodynamic effect. The thrombin generation assay may be
used to measure the reduction in endogenous thrombin potential.
# 8.7 Genetics
A blood or saliva sample for DNA isolation will be collected from participants who have consen
‐
ted to participate in the genetic analysis component of the study. Participation will be optional.
Participants who do not wish to participate in the genetic research may still participate in the
main study. In the event of DNA extraction failure, a replacement genetic sample may be
requested from the participant.
# 8.8 Biomarkers
Samples will be collected to achieve protocol-specific objectives. Details on sample types,
collection schedules, and handling will be provided in the laboratory manual. With participant
consent, samples may be stored for a specified number of years after the end of the study for
further research to contribute to the understanding of the disease, related conditions, or the
development of new treatments.
# 8.9 Immunogenicity Assessments
Antibodies to the study intervention will be evaluated in plasma/serum samples collected from all
participants according to the SoA, including those who discontinue. Samples will be screened for
binding antibodies, and the titer of confirmed positive samples will be reported. The detection
and characterization of antibodies will be performed using a validated assay method.
# 8.10 [Health Economics OR Medical Resource Utilization and
# Health Economics]
For all participants throughout the study, the investigator and study site personnel will collect
data  about  health  care  resource  utilization  associated  with  medical  encounters.  The  data
collected will include the reasons and duration of hospitalizations and emergency room visits,
and will exclude procedures, tests, and encounters mandated by the protocol. Quality of Life
(QoL) will be assessed according to the Anti-Clot Treatment Scale (ACTS).