## 8.3 Safety Assessments

Safety endpoints will be monitored throughout the 6-month treatment period. The main safety
endpoint and potential dose-limiting toxicity will be major bleeding. All bleeding criteria will
include surgical site bleeding.
## 8.3.1 Physical Examinations
A complete physical examination will include, at a minimum, assessments of the
cardiovascular, respiratory, gastrointestinal, and neurological systems. Height and weight
will also be measured and recorded.
A brief physical examination will include, at a minimum, assessments of the skin, lungs,
cardiovascular system, and abdomen (liver and spleen).
Investigators should pay special attention to clinical signs related to previous serious
illnesses.
## 8.3.2 Vital Signs
Oral, tympanic, rectal, axillary, skin, or temporal artery temperature, pulse rate, respiratory
rate, and blood pressure will be recorded (before blood collection for laboratory tests).
Blood pressure and pulse measurements will be assessed with a completely automated
device. Manual techniques will be used only if an automated device is not available.
Blood pressure and pulse measurements should be preceded by at least 5 minutes of rest
for the participant in a quiet setting without distractions.
For blood pressure measurements, 3 consecutive blood pressure readings will be recorded
at intervals of at least 1 minute. The average of the 3 blood pressure readings will be
recorded.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
## 8.3.3 Electrocardiograms
Triplicate or single 12-lead ECG(s) will be obtained as outlined in the SoA using an ECG
machine that automatically calculates the heart rate and measures PR, QRS, QT, and QTc
intervals. Refer to Section 7.1.2 for QTc withdrawal criteria and any additional QTc readings
that may be necessary.
At each timepoint at which triplicate ECGs are required, 3 individual ECG tracings should be
obtained as closely as possible in succession, but no more than 2 minutes apart.
## 8.3.4 Clinical Safety Laboratory Tests
See Appendix 2 for the list of clinical laboratory tests to be performed and the SoA (Section
1.3) for the timing and frequency.
The investigator must review the laboratory results, document this review, and record any
clinically significant changes occurring during the study as an AE. The laboratory results
must be retained with source documents.
Liver function testing will be performed prior to initiating apixaban.
Treatment with apixaban will not require routine monitoring of drug exposure. However, a
calibrated quantitative anti-Factor Xa assay may be useful in exceptional situations where
knowledge of apixaban exposure may help to inform clinical decisions, e.g., overdose and
emergency surgery [5, 6].
All protocol-required laboratory tests, as defined in Appendix 2, must be conducted in
accordance with the laboratory manual and the SoA.
If laboratory values from non-protocol-specified laboratory tests performed at the
institution’s local laboratory require a change in participant management or are considered
clinically significant by the investigator, then the results must be recorded.
## 8.3.5 Pregnancy Testing
Pregnancy will be an exclusion criterion. Women of childbearing potential (WOCBP) must prac
‐
tice a medically accepted, highly effective method of contraception during the trial and for one
month beyond. Highly effective methods will include: combined hormonal contraception, proges
‐
togen-only hormonal contraception, intrauterine device (IUD), intrauterine hormone-releasing
system (IUS), bilateral tubal occlusion, vasectomized partner, or sexual abstinence.
It is unknown whether apixaban or its metabolites are excreted in human milk. A decision must
be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue/abstain from apixaban therapy,
taking into account the benefit of breast-feeding for the child and the benefit of therapy for the
woman.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
## 8.3.6 Suicidal Ideation and Behavior Risk Monitoring
As apixaban is not considered a CNS-active intervention, specific monitoring for suicidal ideation
and behavior (SIB) will not be mandated unless a participant’s underlying condition presents an
elevated risk. Should a participant experience signs of SIB, a risk assessment will be conducted.
All factors contributing to SIB will be evaluated, and consideration will be given to discontinu
‐
ation of the study intervention. Families and caregivers should be alerted to monitor participants
for unusual changes in behavior and report such symptoms immediately to the study investigat
‐
or.